What used to matter a lot was execution
was very, very difficult and
ideas were cheap. Now, ideas are cheap
and plentiful, but execution is very
easy. So, really only the good ideas are
the ones that can justify the spend on
super cheap implementation.
>> You told me this incredible story about
[music] how your own team's use of
tokens has changed dramatically this
year.
>> Yeah.
>> Will you tell that story and what it is
teaching you about what's going on in
the world?
>> Last year, we thought we were heavy
users of an AI. Everyone's using
ChatGPT, everyone's using Claude,
everyone's got, you know, I'm providing
whatever subscriptions anyone wants. On
the order of spend of like tens of
thousands of dollars for our firm. This
year, the spend is just skyrocketed. And
And it really started in late December
with Opus that included Doug who's
president, Doug O'Laughlin. He's very
much like leading the charge in the
sense of like non-technical people using
AI for coding. Um and so he's basically
pulled the whole firm slowly over time.
I think he's been the the leader in
doing that. Obviously, the engineers
were using it anyways, but spend in
January just started to inflect and
rocket and rocket and rocket and rocket.
Um we signed, you know, an enterprise
contract with Anthropic and it's gone to
the point where now, um I think when I
last talked to you, it was 5 million
spend rate. It's actually 7 million
spend rate now.
>> That was last week, by the way.
>> [laughter]
>> A lot of that is just the usage, right?
What's What's really, you know, people
people who are have never coded before
are using Claude code and spending
thousands of dollars sometimes a day.
But, across a firm, we're spending $7
million a year now on Claude code at the
current rate um versus our
salary expense being in the neighborhood
of $25 million.
So, you know, we're north of 25% of
spend on Claude code as a percentage of
salary. If this trajectory continues,
then you know, we'll spend more than
100% by the end of the year.
Uh, which is a bit terrifying.
Thankfully, I don't have to decide
between people and AI because our
company's growing so fast. It's, you
know, more so like, okay, well, I don't
have to hire nearly as fast and I can
spend a lot more on AI and it works and
we just grow faster. But, I think other
folks will start to reckon with the fact
that huh, if this person can do the work
of five to 10 to 15 people uh, using
Claude code, then all of a sudden I
should probably cut people. But, right
now, I think the use cases are so broad.
For example, one thing is we have a
reverse engineering lab in Oregon that
we've been building for a year and a
half. We have a bunch of, you know,
fancy micro subs, scanning electron
microscopes. The whole purpose of this
is you reverse engineer chips. You get
uh, the architecture out of it. You get
the materials that they're using to
manufacture and this is some of the data
we sell. This is a very slow process of
analyzing that data. Instead, um, one
person on the team, they've been able to
spend with a couple thousand dollars of
Claude tokens, they've been able to
create this application that is GPU
accelerated, runs on a server that we
have at Coreweave, and anytime we send
it an image, it's able to take the
picture of the chip and overlay where
every single material is. Oh, this part
is copper. Oh, this part of the gate is
uh, tantalum. This part of the gate is
germanium. This part of the gate is
cobalt. And so, you can do a finite
element analysis of the entire stack up
of the chip
very, very quickly, visual with a
dashboard GUI, it's everything. Few
thousand dollars of tech Claude. The
person previously worked at Intel and he
said that was an entire team's job to
build that and maintain that. Now, rack
that up across, you know, the entire
firm, it's it's insane. Another example
that I think is super fun is Malcolm. He
is an economist at uh, major bank
before. Um, their economist department
was like 100 or 200 people. What he
built was the most incredible thing
ever. He piped all of this different
data, you know, FRED data and all these
other data sets, right? Employment
reports and all these other things from
various APIs. We signed a couple
contracts with folks to get API access
to data. Pulled it all in, started
running regressions, started looking at
the impact of various economic
revolutions
on the economy.
Um from a deflationary inflationary
perspective. The BLS has this entire um
Bureau of Labor Statistics has this
entire like set of like 2,000 tasks. And
so he did that with AI. Which ones can
be done by AI, which ones cannot, and
grading them across a rubric. You know,
about 3% are doable now with AI.
Um and so he's created this like metric
so that you can measure things that can
be done by AI, what what the massive
deflationary uh you know, what the cost
of being able to do those with AI and
therefore the deflationary aspect of it.
You know, output can go up. It's called
phantom GDP is what he's called it.
Phantom GDP. Output can go up, but cuz
cost falls so much actually GDP
theoretically shrinks. So he created
this whole analysis and a brand new
benchmark of uh language models. Um a
set of evals across 2,000 different
evals, right?
>> He does it all by himself?
>> He does it all by himself, yeah. And
he's like, "Dude, this would have taken
the team of 200 economist a year." And
he's just like he's like completely
cracked out on Claude. He's like,
"Everything has changed."
>> How do you think about it as a business
owner
going from close to zero to 25%
accelerating towards whatever percent of
total spend? Like at what point are you
like, "Whoa, I need to put the brakes on
this
and be careful how much we're spending.
Maybe we don't need to spend on the most
cutting it on Opus 4.7 which came out
today. Maybe I can throttle it back to
something that's a little bit cheaper."
>> Ultimately like I'm in the information
business, right? That that is, you know,
we sell analysis to sell. We do
consulting. We create data sets. I don't
see why this wouldn't be completely
commoditized on a pretty rapid basis if
I'm not constantly improving. My first
product that I was selling as a data set
actually it is, you know, like there's
more people trying to do it now. We've
made it constantly better and better and
better and more detailed and so
therefore it sells a market, but the way
we were doing it in 2023 is not terribly
different than, you know, it is it's
it's basically what everyone else is
doing now. If I don't move up the bar,
then I will be commoditized. If I don't
move fast enough, I will also lose my
edge. So, the question is, yes, AI
commoditizes things, just like it
commoditizes software.
Those who can move fast and keep control
of their customers and keep providing
them an awesome service and keep
improving the service won't shrink,
they'll grow. They'll grow faster.
Those who are incumbent and not doing
anything, they're going to lose. And so,
it's a bit of an existential, like
if I don't adopt AI, someone else will
and they will beat me. Uh and another
easy example is the energy space. So,
we've had a few energy analysts for a
couple for like a year now. We've been
trying to build out this energy model.
It's very complex. Energy's data
services market is something like $900
million.
So, obviously a huge market for me to
try and break into, but it has, you
know, we really hadn't broken into the
energy data services business despite a
year of having multiple people on the
team. Um then cloud code psychosis hits.
One of the people who leads the data
center energy and industrial sort of
business at Semi Analysis, uh Jeremy, it
hits him.
And now all of a sudden, in 3 weeks, um
he spent a lot. He was spending like
$6,000 a day. It was an insane amount,
but he scraped every single power plant
in the US, every single transmission
line above a certain voltage, um and
created this entire mapping of the
entire US grid as well as a lot of
demand sources, all from various public
sources of data. Um and we've shown it
to and and we built and it's got like
this dashboard where you can view and
check, you can see all the micro regions
of the US where there's power deficits
and surpluses. Um all of these details,
built in a handful of weeks. We started
showing some of our customers who buy
our data center data set, but our
energy, like traders, we showed some of
them and they're like,
"Wow, how long did this take you? This
is really good. This is better than XYZ
company."
Or and then we like get dig deeper. XYZ
company has 100 people and have been
working on this for a decade. Now,
obviously our thing is not fully robust
as robust, but in some ways it is
better. I'm going to commoditize these
energy services companies, data services
company. Who's going to come commoditize
me if I don't move faster? And so, the
question from a business owner's
perspective is, "Yeah, I'm spending a
lot, but what is that spend getting me?
Is it getting more revenue?" Yeah.
>> [music]
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants [music] to spend hours filing
expense reports, reviewing expense
reports, and checking for policy
violations. So, they built their tools
to give that time back [music] using AI
to automate 85% of expense reviews with
99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, [music] it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too.
>> [music]
>> To see what happens when you eliminate
the busy work, check out
ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
[music] achieve enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, SCIM, [music]
RBAC, and audit logs. That's where
WorkOS comes in. Instead of spending
months building these mission-critical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
WorkOS APIs [music] to gain all of them
on day zero. That's why so many of the
top AI teams you hear about already run
on WorkOS. WorkOS is the fastest way to
become enterprise ready and stay focused
on what matters most, your product.
Visit workos.com to get started.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent that turns a single prompt into
finished client-ready work using your
firm's own templates, contacts, and
standards. Send Felix an email like,
"Take these comments and turn them for
me." Or, "Update my tracker with the
context of these emails." [music]
Or, "Run the ability to pay math on this
buyer." And Felix sends back finished
[music] PowerPoint decks, Excel models,
and sourced research.
Felix works the way your team already
does, delivering work quickly and
accurately around the clock. Learn more
at rogo.ai/felix.
>> Are you worried that in the limit, the
people that control capital and
investing capital were often hiring you
for for what you do, will just say,
"Well, we have analysts, too, who are
really smart about this." Like, we'll
just build this ourselves. Like, if it's
getting that easy, at what point does it
just all pool into the investment firms
that stand to gain the most cuz they
have the most leverage on top of the
data or the insights that that they
glean.
>> First of all, any information services
business, obviously,
I don't generate as much value as my
customer does from said information.
Uh because if I sell you information for
a dollar, you're only buying it for a
dollar because you know that information
helps you make a decision that lets you
make
more than $1. And so, therefore, you
have you have you you have made more
money off of me than I did from the
information myself. An investment fund,
these investment funds all have their
own information services, you know,
especially like the super like the Jane
Streets of the world and the Citadels.
They're they're really detailed on their
data. And yet, um these sort of folks
also purchase data from us and continue
to do so and continue to grow with us
because
I think there's just some some it
factor, right? We move faster, we're
more nimble, we're a smaller team that's
focused on just one specific thing, uh
AI infrastructure and and the huge
revolution that causes in AI, um and
tokenomics and all these things. And and
we sort of really see
where it's headed, and so we're moving
faster and building faster. Um
I think investment professionals just
would you know, yes, they'll try and
build some of the stuff we do and
um more likely they'll just
buy the data from us and it's cheaper
for them to buy the data from us and
then to build and then build on top of
it than it is to build it themselves.
But, ultimately, some may try.
>> I feel like every conversation I have
with you, what I'm always getting at is
just supply and demand of tokens. Like,
that's the thing that's interesting to
me in the world right now.
What has this experience taught you
about the demand? Has it changed your
view on the demand side of that equation
just feeling it viscerally yourself?
>> If we take a step back and look at the
macro lens, right? Anthropic has gone
from 9 billion revenue to what? They're
at 35, 40 billion now. Probably by the
time this airs, 40, 45 billion. Who
knows? AR. [laughter]
Their compute has not grown to the same
degree.
Um and if you do the calculations and
you assume they didn't decrease their
research and development compute, they
clearly didn't. They released They have
Mythos. They have Opus 4.7. So, they
clearly didn't decrease their research
compute spend.
Um so, ultimately, what they've done at
Even if you assume all incremental
compute they've gotten is gone towards
inference, their margins are at a floor
of 72%. In reality, some of that
incremental compute they've got probably
went to research and development. It may
be higher than 72% gross margins. To be
clear, at the start of the year, they
started uh there was a There was a leak
by someone from their funding some of
their funding round docs Someone leaked
it.
30-something percent gross margins.
Where on earth does a business like this
grow margins like that? And it's in
principle, right? Their demand is so
high, they're able to cut back on usage
limits, rate limits, all these things.
Um what really matters is having an
Anthropic rep and having an enterprise
contract with them and getting the rate
limit increases that you need. Because
otherwise, tokens are ultimately super,
super in demand. Whoever Whoever can pay
for them And Anthropic has the same
problem, right? Like I mean, not
problem. It's It's just the reality of
how capitalism works. Yes, people are
spending
sending them $40 billion ARR in tokens.
And But those tokens are generating way
more than $40 billion in value. Various
businesses will have different value
generation per token. But as we get more
and more intelligent, what really
matters is access to these most
intelligent tokens and leveraging them
at things. You as a person deciding what
is the best way to leverage these tokens
to grow business and generate value.
Because a lot of folks will want tokens
and generate tokens. Uh but the shitty
SaaS startup in in in in SF who is using
Claude to generate, you know, their
software product is not necessarily
actually creating a ton of value. And
therefore, they're going to get priced
out of tokens uh soon enough.
>> Are you at all surprised that I I had
this experience just today where
on the flight here, I got rate limited
out on something. I saw 4.7 came out.
And what I immediately wanted was like
to be on 4.7 that second. And I was all
I I just I couldn't think about using
4.6 anymore now that this 4.7 is out. I
was perfectly happy with 4.6 for the
last many weeks. It's amazing. Are you
surprised that people are so insistent
on going to the most expensive leading
edge thing to the degree they are?
>> Without a doubt. One of my funniest
memories in the past month and a half is
myself and a buddy of mine, Leopold,
being on our knees in front of an
Anthropic co-founder begging him for
access to Mythos and then pretending it
doesn't exist.
>> [laughter]
>> Cuz we knew it existed and we're like,
"Please give us access." And he's like,
"I don't know what you're talking
about."
>> What was your reaction to that rate card
or that eval card coming out?
>> It was rumored in the Bay Area.
Everyone, you know, we sort of like knew
it was supposed to be really good, but
um if you just look at the benchmarks,
obviously benchmarks change over time,
Mythos is potentially the biggest step
up in model capabilities in like 2
years. I think that's really, really an
an important detail that you know, and
it it's so good that they're like don't
want to release it even though they're
they they already announced the price to
their people that they did a selective
release for Cyber for and it's like five
or 10x the token cost. They just don't
want to release it um because they're
worried about the like impact on the
world. And they're releasing a shitty
worse version Opus 4.7 to us and they
explicitly said in the model card, "Hey,
we actually preferentially made it worse
at Cyber." I don't know if you read
that. Whoever you are, if you have
enough capital, you should get a
freaking enterprise cloud
uh enterprise Anthropic subscription
where you pay per token not with these
like subscriptions cuz then you won't
get rate limited much. And then you must
you need to figure out how to leverage
those tokens to the highest value task
um and make money off of it. Because
ultimately what you're doing, maybe
maybe like a year from now or 2 years
from now, the business is actually just
arbitraging tokens, right? The tokens
are amazing, but let's figure out what
direction to point them in and then 3 or
4 years from now the model will know,
you know, what to do with the tokens and
how to make the most value. You know,
you can you can look at this
retroactively. Pick any benchmark. The
cost to hit a certain capability tier
used to cost X and now it cost 1/100 or
1/1000 of that. Deep Seek, for example,
on GPT-4 was 1/600 the cost. And since
then, the cost have fallen further for
GPT-4 class models. Of course, no one
gives a crap about GPT-4 class models.
They want the frontier because the
frontier lets them create the
economically valuable things, but GPT-4
class models can still be used in like
stuff. And so, people are using them in
some like tiny use cases. It's just the
cost have fallen so fast. It's It's not
really what's driving the demand. What's
driving the demand is is all these new
use cases. Yeah, current 4.6 Opus or 4.7
Opus tier models
a year from now,
my spend for the same exact quality of
the model would probably be like 70k.
I bet you it'll be a 100 times cheaper.
Irrelevant because I'm going to be using
a way way way better model which can do
way way better things. Uh Anthropic
Mythos is more expensive as a model, but
it spends a lot less tokens to do the
thing. And therefore, it is actually
cheaper in most tasks than 4.6 Opus
because it's just way more efficient
even though each individual token is
smarter.
>> When I last saw you, Mythos had just
come out, maybe the day before or
something, or the the card had just come
out. And you said something like uh
it actually made you feel like a little
scared. It was so good. What did you
mean by that?
>> Anthropic's whole like goal in 2025 was
and and even a lot of 2024, they're
like, "Hey, by the end of 2025, we need
an L4 software engineer
uh in our model." And and they by and
large achieved that with 4.6 Opus. What
they didn't say is that, you know, and
and if you look at Mythos and if you
compare like the benchmarks, it's like
an L6 engineer. So, L4 is like pretty
new. L6 is like quite well experienced.
I think Anthropic said that the model
internally was available in February.
So, in 2 months,
they've gone from L4 engineer to L6
engineer.
Uh what's next? Um
you know, when you when you think about
the model progress, it's only
accelerated. Anthropic's release cadence
has compressed. Open AI's release
cadence has compressed. Why? Because
these models generally, to make a better
model, you need a few things, right? You
need amazing compute. Compute is very
expensive, and it has a time scale that
we, you know, we track, and it's like,
you know, it's growing, but like, you
know, it's it's sort of set in stone for
the next, you know, short short term.
It's like kind of set in stone what
you've already signed. Um and there will
be delays and shifts, and some somehow
you can find a little more, but it's
generally pretty set in stone.
There's amazing researchers that people
are paying tens of millions of dollars
for. And then lastly, there's
implementation. Historically, it's been
very difficult. If I have an idea, now I
have to implement it. Implementing is
hard. Now, ideas are there.
Implementation is very easy. It's
expensive, but it's very easy. So, how
do you how does one decide what ideas to
implement? And it turns out, if your
implementation is just so much easier,
now you can just implement more ideas
and move on the treadmill faster and
faster and faster. Whether that is AI
model research and scenario, model
release cadence has shrunk to down to 2
months from where it was 6 months
before, or
hey, I want to I want to take every
power plant in the US and every
transmission line and model it and run
regressions and see the micro supply and
demand, I can also do that. The idea is
cheap.
You know, which idea makes sense, which
idea is worth the capital that you have
to spend on the tokens, cuz the
implementation is there. It's It's
That's the I think the key learning, and
if implementation costs continue to
tank, which they are,
um we don't even have meet those yet.
It's only been, you know, a handful of
hours since Opus 4.7 launched, but, you
know, my team is pretty excited about it
internally. What now comes to the world?
Uh it's a complete reordering of how
like economies work. What used to matter
a lot was execution was very, very
difficult, and ideas were cheap.
Now, ideas are cheap and plentiful, but
execution's very easy. So, really, only
the good ideas are worth are the ones
that can justify by spend on super cheap
implementation. So, are you actually
scared or are you just is it just does
it just introduce some uncertainty
that's hard to grapple with?
>> Uncertainty is there, um, but I do I do
think that causes
some fear in terms of how does society
reform itself? How does one
exist in a world where actually any, you
know, your ability to implement
something is not actually that
important. Your ability to just choose
the correct idea for AI to implement and
then your ability to sell that idea or
sell what the AI has implemented is what
matters. Your ability to garner capital
towards that is what matters. And going
back to the point of like it's very
important to have the newest model
always. Who's going to have access to
the newest model? Anthropic's project, I
know it's not called earwig, but I troll
Anthropic people by calling it earwig.
Um,
glass wig. Anthropic earwig, you know,
where they only release mythos to
certain companies for cyber, that's just
going to be something that continues.
Models will have less broad and less
broad deployment. I know I know open AI
and Anthropic and all these people are
like, "We want to have great AI for
everyone." AI is very expensive.
Who's going to pay for the trillion
dollars of infrastructure? People who
have money and can can build useful
things with AI. And then you don't want
people to distill your model, so you
don't release them broadly. Uh, you
release them to a fewer and fewer set of
customers. Those customers are also now
wrestling over the tokens. Unless
Anthropic jacks them, you know, they
could double their pricing on Opus and I
would continue to pay and I bet most
users would continue to pay.
I bet that wouldn't solve their
humongous capacity problem that they
have. So then the question becomes,
where does this cycle end where, you
know, token usage and therefore the
benefits of those tokens, the additional
value generated on top of those tokens,
aggregates among fewer and fewer and
fewer companies? I don't have mythos.
You know who has mythos? Top freaking
banks.
Um, now they're only using it for cyber
security, but at some point I can
envision a world where, hey maybe I,
because I have an enterprise Anthropic
contract and because
Anthropic people kind of like me,
they're willing to give us like slightly
earlier access or slightly higher rate
limits or something for a model. I hope
that's what happens. And then my
competitor, whoever that is, doesn't
have that and I'm able to crush
them. There are people who are like Ken
Griffin of Citadel is like super well
connected and super rich and he's like
he he just signs you know who knows he
goes and signs a deal with OpenAI
Anthropic that's like, "Yeah, I'm going
to get access to your models um and I'll
buy the first 10 billion dollars worth
of tokens each year. So whenever you
release the model, you know, I'll spend
the first 10 billion tokens and then
everyone else can get the model after
that." And it's like, "Okay, well now
what does that do?" Well, now he's going
to crush everyone in the market. And so
that's just an example. Could be cyber
like Anthropic is worried about, "Oh,
now I can hack people." Could be
information services business like
myself where I crush someone else. I
think, you know, it it's it's it's such
a broad base. We don't know what these
models can do. Anthropic doesn't know
what these models can do. No one knows
what these models can do. It's up to the
end user to figure out where they can
leverage the tokens to see what they can
build and imagine, which is tremendously
productive and uplifting for humanity,
but then what happens to the
concentration of resources and usage of
it?
>> Presumably right now robotics or robots
consume relatively zero tokens versus
everything else. Do you see what's your
view of that? If that's like a second
demand curve that could start to ratchet
there's a new startup every single day,
you know, within a mile of here trying
to build something interesting in
robotics.
>> So there's this concept of software only
singularity, which is that the world has
you know, AI singularity but only in
software and now what about the rest of
the world? Vast majority of the world is
physical. You can see the world orient
around hardware not software. That's
actually why I think software only
singularity is like just a blip and not
like a you know, we we do get everything
else because once software's super easy,
what makes robots really hard? It's like
programming microcontrollers and
actuators and controlling all this stuff
is very difficult. Right now the
interesting thing thing about models AI
models is they're actually really
inefficient in learning. It's just we're
able to give them so much data that
they're able to learn and surpass us in
certain ways. Robots, currently the
robot models,
um VLAs, uh vision language action
models, which is very popular right now,
is probably not going to be the thing
that ultimately scales beyond. They're
inefficient in data, um and we can't
scale the data for them fast enough.
There is going to be some way to
large-scale pre-train robot models where
just like humans see all this data
throughout their lives. And what's
interesting is humans
the reason why we're so good is we're
sample efficient. One example, we're
good. And so applying that to robotics,
so once you once you have this software
only singularity implementation is super
cheap. Anyone can start to build these
people can start to build models that
now robots are actually useful. And so I
think in the next 6 to 18 months, we'll
start seeing real breakthroughs in
robotics that enable few-shot learning.
I.e., there's a pre-trained robot model,
and now there's a robot that you have
hired or bought or whatever, you show it
a few examples, and it's able to do it.
You show it how to stack these two
things. Or you tell it, "Hey, this can
can actually like balance perfectly."
You know, and it and it starts doing
these things.
>> job.
>> [laughter]
>> One shot.
No, trust me, I've spilled many a time.
So I think I think robots will
you get few-shot learning. Right now,
you know, there's a lot of companies
doing robots for like, you know,
advertisement or robots for like simple
stuff like that, but it'll be like, "Oh,
folding clothes." You know, but it's
going to get really niche, like robots
just for cleaning chalkboards. Um and
it's a rental service or, you know,
it'll be it'll be a model package that
you download onto your standard robot
that then does that, right? And and you
pay for that. You And anyways, there'll
be a huge explosion in physical good
acceleration and and deflationary
effects there. But And and so that's
that's ultimately going to keep token
demand going crazy. And I I don't think
token demand slows down personally.
>> Did you learn anything else about the
world based on Mythos's results and how
it was built? My way of asking like the
you know, if you break down the the
components of of scaling laws, like the
pre-training
>> is a materially larger model than prior
models. And so, yes, it is a much larger
model. Now, whether or not it's it's
what chip it's trained on is not really
relevant. It's the scale. And obviously,
you know, to 100,000 Black Wells is
equivalent to hundreds of thousands of
prior generation chips. TPUs and Tranium
have their different release cadence, so
it's not exactly like mirrored
one-to-one.
Um but ultimately, yes, Mythos is a
significantly larger model. It's proof
that the scaling laws still work. Um
everything about it shows that the
trendline continues of models more
compute into model makes model better.
And along the whole way, it's not just
more compute into model makes model
better. Along the whole way, we're also
getting these compute efficiency wins,
which are
you know, as as all this research
compute that the labs are spending is
actually turning into if I want X
capability to your model, every 6 months
that cost or every 2 months that cost is
dramatically decreasing. But then if I
scale it up massively, I get a humongous
capability jump, as well. And so, yes,
it's it's proof that this is still
happening. Google and Anthropic are not
heavy heavy users of GPUs on the
training side, but OpenAI, they'll
they'll start having their new class of
models. I think they're taking a more
sensible principled approach to scaling
uh in small steps. Anthropic really went
for a huge jump. We'll see better and
better models throughout the year. And
the release cadence is only going to get
faster.
>> We've gone a long way in the
conversation with saying almost nothing
about OpenAI, which would have been so
strange.
>> So, so this is this is the interesting
thing. Everyone's like, "So, okay, so
Anthropic's just won, right?" You know,
they had Mythos in February. They never
even released it cuz they didn't feel
the need to. They're already sold out.
Their revenue's already adding $10
million a month. Um and then you've got
Opus 4 7 today, all before OpenAI's, you
know, um alleged spud release, which,
you know, media such as The Information
and others have have posted about. So,
clearly, Anthropic is in the lead,
right? And OpenAI's cooked. What's
interesting is because Anthropic has
such bounds on compute, and they can
only grow it so fast, and sort of to the
point of, you know, you know, Daria
Daria used to gloat about how OpenAI was
being too aggressive on compute and
Anthropic was more sensible in their
scaling and now Anthropic is like,
we should have I wish we had a lot more
compute. OpenAI is able to pay the bills
perfectly fine. In fact, they've raised
a ton of money to get incremental
computer
in addition to the irresponsible levels
of compute that they are buying from
Oracle and CoreWeave and SoftBank and
all these people and Microsoft. Uh, you
know, such as Tranium. Now they're
getting Tranium as well from Anthro
Amazon. Um, so so they've done this like
insane thing on compute and they need
know they also know they need more. But
what's interesting is if you were to say
Opus 46,
you know, let's ignore models getting
better over time. Let's just take
diffusion of this technology. You and I
may get jump on the model immediately
day one, but other businesses take time
and they take time for people to learn
and the spark of, oh Claude
psychosis moment doesn't hit everyone at
the same time. And so by the end of the
year, let's say a 46 Opus tier model the
economy would spend $100 billion on. I
don't think that's un reasonable. It's
spending 40 billion right now.
>> That's like a linear extrapolation.
>> It's a linear extrapolation, not a not
an exponential. To get the exponential,
you need the better models. Anthropic
won't have enough compute to do that.
And so and and presumably OpenAI and
Google will hit that tier soon enough.
Whoever hits that tier next, sure
Anthropic may get to charge 70 plus
percent gross margins, but if OpenAI
hits it next, they charge 50% gross
margins, they still get all of this
incremental demand and probably they
also won't have enough compute to serve
all the users. And so
sure, maybe Mythos is a model where if
the world had enough compute it'd be
$500 billion of revenue or something
crazy. There is such demand for these
tokens and such limitations on compute.
You know, and we see this with H100
prices skyrocketing and the useful life
of these GPUs continue to extend. It's
pretty clear even the tier two lab is
going to be sold out of tokens. Let
alone the tier one lab. The tier one lab
will have better margins,
but the tier two lab will be sold out
and probably the tier three lab will
also be close to sold out. Economic
value that the best model can deliver is
growing faster than our ability to
actually serve those tokens to people
via the infrastructure. And so this gap
will continue to grow and the model labs
will continue to have expanding margins.
Until people in the hardware supply
chain infrastructure supply chain are
like, wait, no, why don't I just jack up
my margins?
>> So suffice to say I think the assessment
today or your assessment of the demand
side is completely explosive in your own
particular example here at SemiAnalysis,
but just more broadly that as people
fall in call it AI psychosis, as people
fall into this experience of what they
can do, the implementation difficulty
going completely away. I've certainly
felt that.
You know, my own token spend is just
through the absolute roof just in the
matter of weeks. So that that feels like
a pretty good assessment. Anything we're
missing on the demand side?
>> If you don't use more tokens, you'll
never escape the permanent underclass.
>> Just expand on that.
>> So either either you use more tokens and
you generate economic value outside the
economic value for the use of those
tokens. Um a lot of people are doing it
the boring lazy way. Oh, I guess I'll
just work one hour a day instead of
eight hours a day and I'll have eight I
do most of my job. That's the boring
way. The cool way is I'll still work
eight hours a day and I'll I'll do eight
x the work and maybe I'll make five x
the money. Um maybe not you can't do
this with a job obviously. There's
people who have multiple jobs. Um
there's people who like start companies
and start selling stuff. Get that
economic value on on this AI before
everyone is using it and it's table
stakes. Uh because it's still not table
stakes. If you don't use more tokens and
generate the value from them
and capture that value. These are
there's three different problems here.
Using more tokens, generating value from
those tokens, and capturing value from
those token uh from the value that you
created from the tokens. Uh if you don't
do these three things, you'll never
escape the permanent underclass. I.E. as
models continue to skyrocket in
capability and the concentration of
resources potentially happens.
>> All right, let's talk about supply. What
is going on? Like how would you describe
the frontier of what's changing or what
is changing at the frontier of supplying
the entire stack that's required to
serve all these tokens as the demand
curve explodes?
>> As demand skyrockets, prices are going
up for everything on the supply side, um
whether it be the NG GPUs,
uh their prices are going up. In
addition, their useful life is
extending.
>> H100 prices look like this.
>> Yeah, exactly. There's people who have
argued GPUs' full lives are less than 5
years, complete nonsense.
Um there are clusters now re-signing
three or four-year-old Hopper clusters
re-signing for three or four more years.
Um there's A100 clusters that are
re-signing for another couple years. So,
the useful life is clearly not 5 years,
it's maybe even 7 or 8 years, um
arguably. We we don't know yet. We'll
see We'll see when Hopper gets there,
but it it's clearly not 5 years. So, the
useful life is extending and the prices
are going up on that renewal.
So, in effect, the gross margin was not
35% on a cluster, it's beyond that. Um
so, margins are expanding in the in the
cloud layer, margins are um extremely
healthy on the hardware layer with, you
know, Nvidia still charging 75 or
whatever percent gross margin. As we
move down the stack, memory, obviously,
margins have skyrocketed there. Places
like optics and logic, there are large
prepayments,
um and margins are growing slowly, um
more so the companies that are making
chips like Nvidia are paying huge
prepayments. So, in effect, the cost of
capital or timing of cash flow or return
on invested capital is going up even if
the gross margin isn't. And you see this
across the whole supply chain. You see
ASML is completely sold out and they
need Carl Zeiss to expand faster.
Everyone along the chain
everyone's either sold out and margins
are going up or they're getting
prepayments, which increases the return
on invested capital cuz the invested
capital is lower. And so, this is like a
consistent trend across any part It's
It's even like, you know, a PCB It to
make a PCB requires copper foil. And
that copper foil is sold out and people
are making prepayments for it. It's like
anything and everything that like has a
pulse and is like sold out, people are
like jumping to get more incremental
supply and fighting over the supply for
the years after.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering [music] band-aids
and patches, it's unfortunately far too
easy for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing,
differentiated products, [music] knowing
that compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk.
Riedel line offers a better way forward,
one unified platform that automates away
that that automates away that complexity
across portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, and more, all at scale.
Riedel line is revolutionizing
investment management, helping ambitious
firms scale faster, operate smarter, and
stay ahead of the curve. See what Riedel
line can unlock for your firm. Schedule
a demo at riedel.ai.
>> What do you think are the most important
bottlenecks? Like typically in economic
history, when there's this kind of
demand, supply reorients and rises very,
very quickly to meet the demand. It
seems like it's almost impossible for
supply, right now in this moment, to
keep up. You know, famous last words,
every every shortage is followed by a
glut historically. But what are the most
interesting bottlenecks to you on across
the supply side?
>> Supply chains are usually very fast to
react. Um
one unique thing is that our supply
chains now are more complex than ever,
and the things we're building are more
complex than ever, and therefore the
lead times
are longer. Um and it's not like we
haven't seen 18-month long lead times in
other industries. It's just
building incremental supply didn't take
years. Um
and this is the case with memory, right?
Memory can only grow capacity, you know,
low double-digit percentages a year,
right? 20s, 30% a year, um even less for
NAND, a little bit higher for DRAM. Even
though the demand signal was very strong
at the end of 2025, the memory companies
immediately sort of started reacting.
None of that incremental capacity really
gets here until the second that they've
decided to do in addition to the typical
20 to 30% you know, they can stretch a
little bit, but really the true
incremental supply doesn't come till 28,
which is a very unique thing. Even if
they wanted to build as fast as
possible, it doesn't come till 28, uh
early late 27 at best. And so, the
result is memory prices have you know,
gone through the roof. And guess what?
They're going to double and triple
again. Um at least on DRAM especially.
People are like, "Oh, the memory story
is overplayed. Everyone gets it." And
it's like, "No, no, no, you don't get
it. DRAM will double or triple from here
still
because
that's that's how much capacity is
required and they have to steal capacity
from somewhere else and the only way to
steal capacity from somewhere else in a
in a capitalist economy is demand
destruction via higher pricing. We're
not like rationing stuff here. And so,
ultimately that's what's going to
happen. And so, margins continue to go
up. Um
I think logic also has humongous
capacity problems too. TSMC just had
their earnings. Uh they keep up in
capex. Ultimately, you know, it takes
them quite some time to build fabs. Um
they're trying to do everything they can
to squeeze every little output out of
every fab that they have. But
ultimately, they're not raising prices
fast because they're good people that
seems like. Um you know, single-digit
price increases instead of you know,
triple-digit price increases like the
memory guys have had. And so, you
ultimately have like this like market
where you know, TSMC's a great company,
but are they are they actually going to
extract all the value? I mentioned
things like copper foil, glass fibers
for PCBs, lasers. These are things that
are like well-understood and niche
supply chains, but they're very, very
tight. Um
and ultimately upstream, the
semiconductor wafer fabrication
equipment supply chain is one that like
I still think is it's gone up a lot, but
it's still very underappreciated. TSMC
capex this year, they say 56. Uh we've
had 57.4 billion since January.
Um and we may up it slightly more just
cuz we see some some ways that they can
get incremental capex. But what people
aren't focusing on is what does that
mean next year? What does that mean the
year after? And it turns out three years
from now TSMC is going to spend a
hundred billion dollars on CapEx.
Maybe two years from now, right? Might
be 28. Sincerely, they may spend a
hundred billion dollars on CapEx in
2028. And people like just can't fathom
that. But what does that mean for their
downstream supply chains?
You know, companies like Lam Research or
Applied Materials or ASML or their
further downstream supply chains like
MKSI and and all these other companies
the tail whip just gets whipped harder
harder and harder and ultimately that's
a shortage if you know TSMC wants to
spend a hundred billion dollars in 2028,
which is a real possibility. I think
people would think that's insane, but
that's a real real possibility.
>> What about other parts of the chip
ecosystem where GPUs have been
completely dominant? What about like
CPUs or ASICs or things that start to
pop out as both opportunities and
bottlenecks beyond just like Nvidia's
GPU dominance?
>> I mean ASICs are obviously taking off,
but I'll sort of pivot away from AI
chips to talk about these other things.
There's a project we did on FPGAs and
then turns out there's a hundred twenty
FPGAs per per
next generation rack
AI rack and then like what about all the
FPGA names? CPU wise all these
reinforcement learning environments plus
all the slot code you and I are
generating that is now running on some,
you know, Versel instance or whatever it
is
or some AWS instance or some bucket that
we've spun up. All of that requires CPU
and so CPUs are completely sold out and
demand is skyrocketing there.
>> Yeah, help people understand the role
that CPU plays in everything.
>> Yeah, so there's two there's two main
reasons why you need tons of CPU. One is
when you're doing reinforcement learning
the CPU is very critical to that. So so
before you would throw all the
internet's data into the model, train
it, spit it spit some it's it's some
stuff out. Now you train all the world's
internet's you put all the internet data
into the model, then you put it in this
environment. This environment is like
hey model
try this out and it tries stuff out
tries a bunch of different things and in
the end there is an environment which
scores whether or not what it tried out
is successful and it grades it. And
these environments can be anything. It
can be, "Hey, check if the text was
outputted in the right way, structured
output." It could be very simple stuff
or it could be very complex stuff. Um
and people are starting to get into very
complex things, right? Like, "Hey, I
want you to open this file, change it,
edit it, update it, submit it to this
website." I want you to open up this
physics simulation from Siemens and edit
this CAD model. So, the environments can
get more and more complex and those
environments run on CPUs. They don't run
on GPUs. They don't run on ASICs. The
ASICs run the model that takes the input
data from the environment, runs it
through the model. The model creates
outputs of various different
trajectories, right? Ways that it think
it could solve it um in different
instances.
Those trajectories are graded
scored. And the ones that are
successful, you train on and you update
and you reiterate and you iterate
iterate iterate. And so, CPUs are very
useful for that, one. And then, once you
have these great models and you're
deploying them, those models are
generating code. They're generating
useful output. That useful output, it
doesn't go from a GPU straight to the
human brain.
Um it goes from a GPU or an ASIC through
to, you know, a deployed app that you're
deploying somewhere. That actually just
runs on CPUs. So, that's another area
where there's a lot of demand and things
are sold out um in a large large way.
>> As you continue to assess and try to be
the world's best informed person on both
the trajectory of supply and demand,
what are things that you wish you knew
to make that understanding that you
don't know?
>> I think the hardest area for us
um and for everyone is understanding
tokenomics, the economics of tokens.
Um
I think we have a really tremendously
like good insight into how much it cost
to run infrastructure, what the cost of
tokens are, what the cost of models are,
what the margins of these labs are.
But, the usage and adoption is what's
really difficult to model. You know,
continuously, right? We We have these
like We had like crazy In January, we
had crazy estimates for February.
Anthropic smashed them. How do we
calibrate this model? What are the data
sources for this? February, uh we had
crazy assumptions for March and then
they smashed them. And everyone sees the
number of 10 billion and they're like,
what the How do they add 10 billion
in revenue? Who is using all these
tokens? Why are they using them? What
are they building with them? And then
more importantly, with what they're
building with these tokens, how is that
actually diffusing into the economy and
what value is that generating? Cuz it's
not really something that you can
capture in any
any GDP statistic, right? All of the
value of the tokens that I use get
transformed into better information,
which I then sell at a discount to what
people used to sell information for
relatively because
and therefore that information is now
making its way throughout the economy
and and people are making better
investment decisions or better
competitive decisions but if they're
semi-direct company or data center
company or hyper scalar. And now how how
much what what is the value of this and
what is that what is that done to the
economy? It's clearly by every
subjective metric amazing.
But where is the phantom GDP? What is
the phantom GDP? How do we track the
real economic value cuz cuz the GDP
metrics are not, you know, accurate if
you were to say, what is the GDP that
Dillon Patel is making? It's tiny
compared to what the value that I think
is being created. And so ultimately,
what is the value being created by these
tokens? Not on a basis of, you know,
just simple, you know, what is the
knock-on effect, right? What is the
knock-on effect of all the things that
these things are doing? I think that's
the real
question and challenge that's hard to
measure. I think we've got a tremendous,
you know, reading on the supply side of
things. I think we've got a tremendous
reading on even a lot of the demand side
signals but it's it's what is the value
these tokens are generating? That's hard
to quantify and measure.
>> I hope we get a chance to do this like
every 3 months because this changes so
quickly. What do you think's going to
happen next? Like when I when I come
back 3 months from now and we're in San
Francisco together again, what do you
expect?
>> Large-scale protests.
>> Really?
>> Yeah, I think there'll be a large-scale
protest against Anthropic.
And up at AI.
>> Expand on that a little more.
>> Uh people hate AI.
Um, AI is less popular than ice, less
popular than politicians. Confused how
Pew surveyed this, but apparently, AI is
less popular than politicians. You know,
with Anthropic adding so much revenue,
that's going to start causing business
changes downstream. People are going to
get more and more scared of AI. They'll
start blaming more and more of their own
problems and things that are, you know,
global, you know, have been deep-seated
problems for a long time. Those will
bubble up and be blamed on AI. Um,
probably some politician or some social
media people will start to be able to
take, uh,
influence or will be able to start
taking and weaponizing AI against
people. You look at the comments of news
articles where Sam Altman had a Molotov
cocktail thrown at his house twice in
like 2 weeks. They're like, people are
cheering it on.
Uh, and this is just the beginning. So,
I think I think we'll see large-scale
protest against AI in 3 months.
>> What is the counterweight to that? Like,
how should the AI industry head that
off?
>> First of all, Sam Altman and Dario have
to stop getting on interviews. They're
so uncharismatic.
I don't know what they're doing. Every
interview they do is like, well, normal
people are going to hate you even more.
Like, Sam being on Tucker Carlson
probably made all Republicans hate
OpenAI. And same with Dario, they just
have no charisma. I think that's first.
Two,
they need to start showing uplifting
things that can be done with AI.
Um, three, they need to stop talking
about how the capabilities are going to
change the whole world constantly
because then people are going to get
fear of that capability cuz they have no
connection.
>> to use it.
>> There's no connection to it, either.
Like, the average person doesn't know an
Anthropic employee. Average person
doesn't know an OpenAI employee. Average
person doesn't know who these people
are, what their goals are, and they just
view them as like this like sneaky cabal
of like 5,000 people at this company
that are going to change the world and
automate all the jobs and and destroy
society. That's what they view it as.
And and as people who are funding the
building of all these data centers and
and power plants that are going to
pollute the world, right? They don't
quite understand what's happening. You
know, they have to stop talking about
the future thing that's going to happen
and only talk about present, how
uplifting AI is. I think it's a huge
reorg and rebranding needs to be done.
>> I love doing this [music] with you.
Thanks for your time.
>> Awesome, thanks.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's [music]
watching. Ramp puts guardrails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
[music]
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you [music] a single source of
truth for security and risk. Learn more
at vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com [music] to
see what they can unlock for your firm.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise-ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com [music]
to skip the unglamorous infrastructure
work and focus on your product.